You can use this script even if you don't know how to use python.

This guide is meant for anyone that isn't familiar with python and just wants to quickly figure out how to use the script.


Directions:

First, download & install python on your computer:
https://www.python.org/downloads/



After python is installed, you'll have to install pytube - which is the python module needed to interact with youtube. Get to your terminal emulator.

Windows Users:
Hold the Windows Key & press R.
Type 'cmd' into the Run window & press enter.

Mac Users:
Navigate to Applications/Utilities/Terminal

Linux & other OSs:
Anyone on a non Windows/Mac OS probably probably doesn't need these instrions or this guide.

Once in your terminal, type 'pip install pytube'.



Download the script from github.
https://github.com/YepsenX/Youtube-to-Audio-Downloader

Click the "<>Code" button and select "Download ZIP"
Extract the file into a folder & right click the 'YT to Audio.py' file & open with Python.



You are now running the script. Things should be pretty self explainatory from here.

A few FYI's follow.



Currently the script only works with playlist URLs. If you want to download an individual video, you'll have to add it to a playlist first.

For an easy way to get a save path, navigate to your disered folder in your file explorer. Right click on the folder at the upper middle bar of your explorer & select "copy address."

The script will most likely download the files as .webm or .mp4 file types. Until I get around to updating it, you'll have to convert the files yourself into more common formats such as .wav or .mp3

Youtube counts private videos that were once on your playlist against the "total videos" value even if you can't watch them. If your playlist says 100 videos and you only get 90, this may be why.

Additionally, if a video is age restricted - there is no way I know of to download it using this method. Sorry, better luck next time.

Any videos that are age restricted, or otherwise a watchable but not downloadable will be listed when the program finishes running so you know what is missing. I suggest saving this list somewhere if you want to reference it later, as it will disappear when you close the script.